Julie Taylor, 38, was getting coffee with Katrina Dawson in the Lindt cafe when Man Haron Monis launched his fatal attack.
Julie Taylor, 38, worked in a nearby office with fellow lawyer Katrina Dawson - one of the two hostages who did not make it out of the Lindt cafe alive.
It is believed the pair were getting coffee when Man Haron Monis, 49, produced a gun and announced he was leading an attack by Islamic State.
Ms Taylor, who is recently married, was pictured fleeing the scene with two others 15 minutes before police opened fire, killing the gunman.
However she later learned that her friend Mrs Dawson, a 38-year-old mother of three, had died, reportedly from a heart attack in hospital.
Ms Taylor lives in east Sydney and is a successful barrister in corporate law at the law firm Eight Selborne.
She completed a bachelor of civil law at Magdalen College, Oxford and has appeared before the High Court - one of the youngest women to do so.
She is currently in a stable condition in hospital.
During the siege, Ms Taylor was one of the first hostages chosen by Monis to outline his demands in a 44-second speech posted on YouTube.
I'm Julie Taylor.
I'm a barrister in Sydney.
Standing in front of an Islamic flag, she delivered the speech in a steady voice, despite obvious signs of strain.
7:56 PM GMT 15 Dec 2014.
The president of the NSW Bar Association, Jane Needham, SC, said it was with a heavy heart and deep sorrow that she informed members of the bar that Ms Dawson had passed away in the early hours of the morning.
Oil price collapse is good news for British people, says George Osborne.
Drop in oil price good news for the West but Vladimir Putin may be exposed, Chancellor George Osborne believes.
Mr Osborne acknowledged the challenges facing the North Sea oil and gas industry following by the price falls, but pointed out that the tax cuts for oil companies he announced last month would help ease their pain.
New rules to bind the profligacy of future governments have been unveiled in an attempt to balance the Government’s books by the middle of the next parliament.
An update to the Charter of Budget Responsibility would require future Governments to make plans to balance the cyclically-adjusted current budget deficit within a three-year horizon.
The change would tighten up the charter first introduced in 2010, which required the Government to balance the budget over a rolling five-year period.
According to Government estimates, £30bn of further consolidation – either cuts or raised taxation – will be required by the end of the 2017-18 fiscal year to meet the new target and eliminate the deficit.
Achieving this will require further difficult decisions to be made by Government, the Treasury said.
As a percentage of GDP, public sector net borrowing has fallen by over a third since the 2009-10 fiscal year.
Government projections suggest it well have fallen by half by the end of the 2014-15 period.
